[KOGUMA]
Soon enough, summer arrived.
The first summer riding my Cub.
[KOGUMA]
Reiko had said...
...that she was hoping
to do something big
over the school break.
[KOGUMA]
And there's also something
that I've been
planning on doing.
Something I've been wanting
to do since I started riding.
Since I found my Cub.
[TEACHER 3B]
Ah, yes!
If I recall, I gave you the
front basket off my Cub.
Well, then.
Any interest in this job?
Transporting documents?
It's fairly straightforward.
We have a joint training program
with Kofu Daiichi High
during summer vacation.
You would be carrying documents
between their school and ours.
Typically you'd make two round
trips, morning and evening,
and each trip would
pay 2,000 yen.
Of course, you would
also be responsible for gas
and any other expenses.
Sound good?
[KOGUMA] Hmm. I'd like to
sleep on it if that's okay.
[REIKO]
You're gonna be a courier?
Courier?
[REIKO] A fancy word for people
who deliver documents,
and you're talking
old-school courier work--
getting sensitive information
to important people.
Though now, the guy who
drops off your online shopping
is called a courier, too.
[KOGUMA]
Huh...
[REIKO] Anyway, think you're
gonna take the job?
Yeah. I'll give it a shot.
[REIKO giggles]
I see. So you were just
checking out your new route.
I went as far as Kofu Station.
The trip's just under
an hour and a half.
And you bought lunch on the way!
It's cool if you
wanna treat yourself,
but shouldn't you wait
till you get paid?
[TEACHER 3B] Great!
You'll start tomorrow morning.
Before I forget, you
will officially be working
on the school's behalf.
We'll need you
to remain in uniform
while you're making your rounds.
I'm not sure wearing
my uniform's a good idea.
If I'm on the main roads,
and I'm riding fast enough
to keep pace...
...and I shift in my seat
and my skirt gets caught...
--Or the wind--
--Ah.
I'd failed to
even consider that.
So... let's figure
something out.
If I could, I'd like to
wear my gym clothes.
[REIKO]
So when do you start work?
[KOGUMA] Tomorrow.
Right after the exam block.
[REIKO]
Good luck.
I'm gonna spend
the summer on my bike, too.
Where are you going?
[REIKO]
Somewhere close, yet far away.
Be safe, okay?
[REIKO]
I know.
[KOGUMA]
Ah.
I'm at 620 already?
Um. I've gone over
100 kilometers.
Could I please have
my oil changed?
I wasn't expecting
to see you back this soon.
Good thing I remembered.
I'll be using it for
a job starting tomorrow.
For a job?
I need to make money
so I can take care of my Cub.
[SHINO]
Hmm...
Ideally you'd change your
oil after 100, again at 500,
and once more when you
get to 1,000 kilometers.
If you watch me, you should be
able to do the third oil change
by yourself.
So, where can I
get oil like that?
You can pick some up at
any of the stores around town.
Is that the kind
of oil I should buy?
[SHINO]
It's the one I'd recommend.
[SHINO groans]
[sighs]
500 yen.
Really? It's only 500?
You get a small discount
on your first service.
[KOGUMA]
Huh?
[KOGUMA groaning]
[TEACHER 3B]
All right. Here's your delivery.
Okay. When do I need
to be back here?
[TEACHER 3B] Any time
before noon will be fine.
And when you go to deliver our
papers, remember you need
to pick up theirs before
you head back here.
[KOGUMA]
Mm...
Hmm!
Head that way, straight through
the quad and it's right there.
[KOGUMA]
Thank you very much.
Huh...
[GIRL 4A panting]
[knocking]
[TEACHER 4A]
Come in.
Over here!
I'm glad to see you made it.
Here's the papers from
Mukawa High School.
Got it. Thank you.
Sure. All right.
--I'm gonna--
--[TEACHER 4A] Hold on.
I just need a second
to check them.
Oh. Right.
[TEACHER 4A]
Ugh. That's a lot of writing.
[BOY 4A]
Good. Keep after it!
[GIRL 4B]
You got this! Nice, great shot!
There. All done.
[groans]
[TEACHER 4A] Here.
I can make you some tea
if you'd like to
rest for a while.
Thanks, but I'm trying
to get back to my school
as soon as possible.
You're in a rush, huh?
Well, safe travels, then.
[KOGUMA]
Yes. Thank you.
[TEACHER 4A]
Hmm.
Hey! Wait a second!
I almost let you take off
without our papers!
Ah...
Really sorry about that.
It totally slipped my mind.
[KOGUMA]
I forgot about it, too.
I should have checked
before I walked out.
Pardon me.
I'll see you next time.
You'll have two trips a day
after summer vacation begins
in earnest, but today
you just have one.
All done.
Here you go. Good job today.
Thank you very much, sir.
[inaudible]
Okay...
Huh?
It's over 500 kilometers.
[SHINO groans]
Let's see...
You've been riding her gently.
Maybe a bit too gently.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm?
I'm riding too gently?
Huh.
[KOGUMA whines]
[TEACHER 4A]
Hmm?
Ah!
Are you okay?!
[KOGUMA groans]
Oh, gosh, you must be freezing!
Here, use this towel.
Thank you, ma'am.
[TEACHER 4A]
Great. Looks good.
And we don't have anything
to send back today.
Oh. Okay.
I'll take the bag, then.
The rain should pass
pretty soon.
Why not have some
hot tea and wait it out?
[KOGUMA]
Maybe...
Yes. I will, thank you.
[KOGUMA]
So, um...
Are you here to supervise
some of the club activities?
[TEACHER 4A]
Of course, I never told you.
I am.
The Literature Club.
Ah? Right. I see.
[KOGUMA groans]
Huh...?
Ah...
[KOGUMA groans]
[whines]
[engine puttering]
Heh.
[KOGUMA]
Take that, sky.
Huh?
I'm over a thousand!
[cicadas crying]
[KOGUMA] "Allow the engine to
idle briefly to bring the oil up
to temperature."
[KOGUMA]
Ah?
Is that it?
[KOGUMA groans]
[groaning continues]
[whining]
[groaning]
[bike bell ringing]
Ah.
[KOGUMA grunts]
[gasps]
A month and a half
of excellent work.
You were a great help.
Thank you, sir.
It means so much.
I've saved a good amount.
[phone buzzing]
Hi, Reiko.
[REIKO]
Hey, I just got home.
Can you get over,
like, right now?
[KOGUMA]
Mm...
Okay. But how do I get there?
[KOGUMA]
My first summer riding my Cub.
The first job I ever had...
The staff room
at another school...
The rain...
Going back and forth
between these two towns...
My world has grown.
There are still
so many places to see.
But there are roads
connecting them,
and I can follow
the roads anywhere.
Now, I wanna keep going further.
It's been a while.
Good to see you.
Well, come in.
[KOGUMA] Episode 5:
"Reiko's Summer."